# Continuous Delivery Pipelines with Spinnaker and Kubernetes Engine


# Continuous Delivery Pipeline

Continuous Delivery (CD) is a software strategy that enables organizations to deliver new features to users as fast and efficiently as possible. 
The goal of Continuous Delivery is to enable a constant flow of changes into production via an automated software production line. 
The Continuous Delivery pipeline is what makes it all happen.

Deploying builds quickly is an absolute must if one want to keep the customer happy, but not if that speed comes at the expense of accuracy or quality. 
An organization may be tempted to delay each release just to make sure everything’s correct, but this would be a mistake.
The longer one wait before each release, the bigger the pressure to get it right.
If there is an issue, the dev team will have to trawl through so much more code to find and fix the problem.

This is where automation and the continuous delivery pipeline comes in handy.

The continuous delivery pipeline (or CI/CD pipeline) forms the backbone of modern DevOps.
It refers to a process in which certain key steps in the software delivery process are automated. The ultimate goal is to speed things up and reduce errors.

Continuous integration is the first stage, followed by continuous delivery and then, finally, continuous deployment. Together, these make up the pipeline.
Every pipeline is a little different, so there are no hard and fast rules here. 

There is no such thing as The Standard Pipeline, 
but a typical CD pipeline will include the following stages: build automation and continuous integration; test automation; and deployment automation.

1. New features implemented by the developers are integrated into the central code base on a continuous basis, built and unit tested. 
   This is the most direct feedback cycle that informs the development team about the health of their application code.
   
2. Throughout this stage, the new version of an application is rigorously tested to ensure that it meets all desired system qualities and is verified by pipeline.
 
3. A deployment is required every time the application is installed in an environment for testing, but the most critical moment for deployment automation is rollout time.
   Since the preceding stages have verified the overall quality of the system, this is a low-risk step. The deployment can be staged,
   with the new version being initially released to a subset of the production environment and monitored before being completely rolled out. 
   
# Spinnaker
   
Spinnaker is an open source, multi-cloud continuous delivery platform for releasing software changes with high velocity and confidence.
Open sourced by Netflix and heavily contributed to by Google, it supports all major cloud vendors (AWS, Azure, App Engine, Openstack, etc.) including Kubernetes.
Application management and Application Deployment are its two core features.

Spinnaker’s application management features can be used to view and manage cloud resources.
Modern tech organizations operate collections of services — sometimes referred to as “applications” or “microservices”. 
A Spinnaker application models this concept.


An application in Spinnaker is a collection of clusters, which in turn are collections of server groups. 
The application also includes firewalls and load balancers. 
An application represents the service which needs to be deployed using Spinnaker, all configuration for that service, and all the infrastructure on which it will run.

Clusters are logical groupings of Server Groups in Spinnaker. (Does not map to Kubernetes cluster)

The base resource, the Server Group, identifies the deployable artifact (VM image, Docker image, source location) 
and basic configuration settings such as number of instances, autoscaling policies, metadata, etc.

A Load Balancer is associated with an ingress protocol and port range. It balances traffic among instances in its Server Groups.

A Firewall defines network traffic access. 
It is effectively a set of firewall rules defined by an IP range (CIDR) along with a communication protocol (e.g., TCP) and port range.

The pipeline is the key deployment management construct in Spinnaker. 
It consists of a sequence of actions, known as stages. One can pass parameters from stage to stage along the pipeline.
A pipeline can be started manually, or can be configured it to be automatically triggered by an event.

A Stage in Spinnaker is an atomic building block for a pipeline, describing an action that the pipeline will perform. 
One can sequence stages in a Pipeline in any order, though some stage sequences may be more common than others. 
Spinnaker provides a number of stages such as Deploy, Resize, Disable, Manual Judgment, and many more. 

Spinnaker supports all the cloud native deployment strategies including Red/Black (a.k.a Blue/Green), Rolling red/black and Canary deployments, etc.

Pipeline architecture

To continuously deliver application updates to the users, companies need an automated process that reliably builds, tests, and updates the software. 
Code changes should automatically flow through a pipeline that includes artifact creation, unit testing, functional testing, and production rollout. 
In some cases, they want a code update to apply to a subset of the users, so that it is exercised realistically before one push it to the entire user base. 
If one of these canary releases proves unsatisfactory, automated procedure must be able to quickly roll back the software changes.

With Kubernetes Engine and Spinnaker, 
one can create a robust continuous delivery flow that helps to ensure that the software is shipped as quickly as it is developed and validated. 

spin is a command-line utility for managing Spinnaker's applications and pipelines.

# Intro to Helm

Deploying applications to Kubernetes – the powerful and popular container-orchestration system – can be complex. 
Setting up a single application can involve creating multiple interdependent Kubernetes resources – such as pods, 
services, deployments, and replicasets – each requiring to write a detailed YAML manifest file.

Helm is a package manager for Kubernetes that allows developers and operators to more easily package, 
configure, and deploy applications and services onto Kubernetes clusters.

Helm is a package manager used to configure and deploy Kubernetes applications.
Helm automatically maintains a versioned history of the releases. If something goes wrong with a deployment, getting back to previous state can be really simple.

Similar to Python’s pip.

Helm can:

1. Install software.
2. Automatically install software dependencies.
3. Upgrade software.
4. Configure software deployments.
5. Fetch software packages from repositories.

Helm provides this functionality through the following components:

1. A command line tool, helm, which provides the user interface to all Helm functionality.
2. The Helm packaging format, called charts.

Helm packages are called charts, and they consist of a few YAML configuration files and some templates that are rendered into Kubernetes manifest files. 

During the installation of a chart, Helm combines the chart’s templates with the configuration specified by the user and the defaults in value.yaml. 
These are rendered into Kubernetes manifests that are then deployed via the Kubernetes API. 
This creates a release, a specific configuration and deployment of a particular chart.

One might upgrade a release because its chart has been updated, or because after updating the release’s configuration. 
Either way, each upgrade will create a new revision of a release, and Helm will allow to easily roll back to previous revisions in case there’s an issue.

# Objectives

1. Set up the environment                                                                                                                                       
   Configure the infrastructure and identities required.                                                                                                         
   First create a Kubernetes Engine cluster to deploy Spinnaker and the sample application.                                                                       
   Configure identity and access management.                                                                                                     
   
2. Set up Cloud Pub/Sub to trigger Spinnaker pipelines                                                                                   

3. Deploying Spinnaker using Helm                                                                                                       
   Install Helm                                                                                                                                     
   Configure Spinnaker                                                                                                            
   Deploy the Spinnaker chart                                                                                                    
   
4. Building the Docker image                                                                                                                               
   Configure build triggers                                                                                                                        
   Prepare Kubernetes Manifests for use in Spinnaker                                                                                                                       
   Build image                                                                                                  
   
5. Configuring deployment pipelines                                                                                                            
   Install the spin CLI for managing Spinnaker                                                                               
   Create the deployment pipeline                                                                                                 
   
6. Triggering your pipeline from code changes
  


   
