# Site Reliability Troubleshooting with Cloud Monitoring APM

# Skaffold 

Skaffold is an Open Source project for CI/CD providing a CLI tool for “easy and repeatable Kubernetes development.”
Skaffold is a command line tool that saves developers time by automating most of the development workflow from source to deployment in an extensible way.
Skaffold allows developers to focus on writing code while avoiding tedious administering tasks.

Skaffold helps to automate CI/CD workflow (building, pushing and deploying) by providing rapid feedback to developers, 
i.e. the ability to promptly see the result of code changes in the form of an updated application running in Kubernetes. 
In addition, one can run this application in various environments (dev, stage, production…) by defining relevant pipelines in Skaffold.
It helps in debugging applications written in Java, Node.js, Python, Go.
The Skaffold itself does not have cluster-side components, so no need to configure Kubernetes to use it.

What is the general pattern of Skaffold’s workflow?

1. The utility watches the directory with the source code for changes. 
   If files are modified in some way, Skaffold synchronizes them with the application’s pod in the Kubernetes cluster, 
   without rebuilding an image if possible. Otherwise, it builds a new image.
   
2. Skaffold tests the new image with container-structure-test, tags it, and pushes to the Docker Registry.

3. After that, the image is being deployed to the Kubernetes cluster.

4. If we initiated the entire workflow with the skaffold dev command, 
   then we start to receive application logs, and Skaffold will continue watching for changes to repeat all the steps again.
   
# SLI, SLO and SLA

An SLI is a service level indicator—a carefully defined quantitative measure of some aspect of the level of service that is provided.
SLI are the parameters which indicates the successful transactions, requests served by the service over the predefined intervals of time. 
These parameters allows to measure much required performance and availability of the service.

Most services consider request latency — how long it takes to return a response to a request — as a key SLI.
Other common SLIs include the error rate.
Another kind of SLI important to SREs is availability, or the fraction of the time that a service is usable.

SLO defines the acceptable downtime of the service. For multiple components of the service, there can be different parameters which defines the acceptable downtime.
Key Examples are: Durability of disks should be 99.9%, Availability of service should be 99.95%

SLA defines the penalty that service provider should pay in an event of service unavailability for pre-defined period of time. 
Service provider should clearly define the failure factors for which they will be accountable(Domain of responsibility).

# Objectives

1. Environment & infrastructure setup
  
2. Deploy application

3. Develop Sample SLOs and SLIs

4. Configure latency & availability SLI 
 
5. Deploy new release                                                                                                                        
   (Don't forget to save the changes made)
   
6. Sending data

7. Latency SLO Violation - Find the Problem

8. Deploy after making changes

9. Error Rate SLO Violation - Find the Problem                                                                                                           
   Could use Cloud debugger

10. Deploy Fix

11. Application optimization with Cloud Monitoring APM                                                                                                    
    Using Profiler
    

