# Introduction to SQL for BigQuery and Cloud SQL

SQL (Structured Query Language) is a standard language for data operations that allows to ask questions and get insights from structured datasets. 
It's commonly used in database management and allows to perform tasks like transaction record writing into relational databases and petabyte-scale data analysis.

A Database is essentially a collection of one or more tables. SQL is a structured database management tool, 
but quite often one will be running queries on one or a few tables joined together—not on whole databases.

Storing and querying massive datasets can be time consuming and expensive without the right hardware and infrastructure. 
BigQuery is an enterprise data warehouse that solves this problem by enabling super-fast SQL queries using the processing power of Google's infrastructure. 


# SQL Queries

1. SELECT
   Use SELECT to specify what fields one want to pull from the dataset.                                                                            
   Eg: SELECT USER FROM example_table                                                                         
   
2. FROM
   Use FROM to specify what table or tables we want to pull the data from.                                                             
   Eg: SELECT USER, SHIPPED FROM example_table                                                                           
   
3. WHERE
   WHERE keyword is the SQL command that filters tables for specific column values                                                              
   Eg: SELECT USER FROM example_table WHERE SHIPPED='YES'                                                          

4. GROUP BY
   GROUP BY keyword will aggregate result-set rows that share common criteria and will return all of the unique entries found for such criteria.                                 
   Eg: SELECT start_station_name FROM `bigquery-public-data.london_bicycles.cycle_hire` GROUP BY start_station_name;                                              
   (will output the unique (non-duplicate) column values found in the table)                                                                   

5. COUNT
   COUNT() function will return the number of rows that share the same criteria.                                                         
   Eg: SELECT start_station_name, COUNT(*) FROM `bigquery-public-data.london_bicycles.cycle_hire` GROUP BY start_station_name;                                
   
6. AS
   AS keyword creates an alias of a table or column                                                               
   Eg: SELECT start_station_name, COUNT(*) AS num_starts FROM `bigquery-public-data.london_bicycles.cycle_hire` GROUP BY start_station_name;                    
   
7. ORDER BY
   ORDER BY keyword sorts the returned data from a query in ascending or descending order based on a specified criteria or column value.                  
   Eg: SELECT start_station_name, COUNT(*) AS num FROM `bigquery-public-data.london_bicycles.cycle_hire` GROUP BY start_station_name ORDER BY num DESC;            
   

# Exploring the BigQuery Console

BigQuery is a fully-managed petabyte-scale data warehouse that runs on the Google Cloud.
BigQuery console contains "Query editor", this is where one can write and run SQL commands. 
Below that is "Query history", which is a list of queries one ran previously.


# CLoud SQL

Cloud SQL is a fully-managed database service that makes it easy to set up, maintain, manage, and administer the relational PostgreSQL, MySQL databases  and SQL Server in the cloud. 
There are two formats of data accepted by Cloud SQL: dump files (.sql) or CSV files (.csv). 

# Commands and Note

Objective here is to create a Cloud SQL instance.                                      
Then using Cloud Shell connect to SQL instance.                                                                 
Command: gcloud sql connect  [NAME] --user=root                                                                
SQL server prompt will be enabled.                                                                   
Create a new database.                                            
Command: CREATE DATABASE [dbName];                                                                    
Create a table inside the database                                                                          
Command: USE [dbName];                                                                                              
         CREATE TABLE tablename (column_name with type);
