Main objectives: 

1) Create multiple web server instances 
2) Create a HTTP(s) Load Balancer 
3) Create a Network Load Balancer 

 

To simulate serving from a cluster of machines, a simple cluster of Nginx web servers to serve static content using Instance Templates and MIG (Managed Instance Group) is created. Instance Templates define the look of every virtual machine in the cluster. (disk, CPUs, memory, etc.) Managed Instance Groups instantiate a number of virtual machine instances using the Instance Template. 

 

Network load balancing allows to balance the load of the systems based on incoming IP protocol data, such as address, port, and protocol type. 

https://cloud.google.com/load-balancing/docs/network 

 

HTTP(S) load balancing provides global load balancing for HTTP(S) requests destined for the instances. One can configure URL rules that route some URLs to one set of instances and route other URLs to other instances. Requests are always routed to the instance group that is closest to the user, provided that group has enough capacity and is appropriate for the request. If the closest group does not have enough capacity, the request is sent to the closest group that does have capacity. 

 

For HTTP(s) Load balancing, follow the given steps;  

First, create a health check, it verifies that the instance is responding to HTTP or HTTPS traffic.  
Define an HTTP service and map a port name to the relevant port for the instance group. Now the load balancing service can forward traffic to the named port. 
Create a backend service 
Add the instance group into the backend service 
Create a default URL map that directs all incoming requests to all the instances 
(One can also direct traffic to different instances based on the URL being requested, namely content-based routing) 
Finally, create a global forwarding rule to handle and route incoming requests 
(Sends traffic to a specific target HTTP or HTTPS proxy depending on the IP address, IP protocol, and port specified.) 
Note: The global forwarding rule does not support multiple ports. 

 

One can load balance additional TCP/UDP-based protocols such as SMTP traffic using Network Load Balancer, but not with HTTP(s) Load Balancer. And if the application is interested in TCP-connection-related characteristics, network load balancing allows the app to inspect the packets, where HTTP(S) load balancing does not. 

 

Commands to note: 

1) Commands to create Nginx web server cluster 

2) gcloud compute firewall-rules create www-firewall --allow tcp:80 (configure a firewall so that you can connect to the machines on port 80 via the external IP addresses) 

3) gcloud compute http-health-checks create http-basic-check 

 

 

 

 
