# Cloud Monitoring: Qwik Start

Cloud Monitoring provides visibility into the performance, uptime, and overall health of cloud-powered applications.
Cloud Monitoring collects metrics, events, and metadata from Google Cloud, Amazon Web Services, hosted uptime probes, application instrumentation, 
and a variety of common application components including Cassandra, Nginx, Apache Web Server, Elasticsearch, and many others.
Cloud Monitoring ingests that data and generates insights via dashboards, charts, and alerts.

The Cloud Monitoring agent is a collectd-based daemon that gathers system and application metrics from virtual machine instances and sends them to Monitoring.
By default, the Monitoring agent collects disk, CPU, network, and process metrics.

https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/agent

Cloud Logging agent installed to stream logs from VM instances to Cloud Logging.

Cloud Logging allows one to store, search, analyze, monitor, and alert on log data and events from Google Cloud. 
The API also allows ingestion of any custom log data from any source. 
Cloud Logging is a fully managed service that performs at scale and can ingest application and system log data from thousands of VMs.

Uptime Check: Uptime checks verify that a resource is always accessible. For practice, create an uptime check to verify the VM is up

Alerting gives timely awareness to problems in the cloud applications so one can resolve the problems quickly.
To create an alerting policy, one must describe the circumstances under which they want to be alerted and how they want to be notified.
This page provides an overview of alerting policies and the concepts behind them.

Dashboard and charts: One can display the metrics collected by Cloud Monitoring in the charts and dashboards section. 
