# Multiple VPC Networks

A virtual private cloud (VPC) is a private cloud computing environment contained within a public cloud. 
Essentially, a VPC provisions logically isolated sections of a public cloud in order to provide a virtual private environment.

Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) provides networking functionality to Compute Engine virtual machine (VM) instances, 
Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) clusters, and the App Engine flexible environment.
A VPC network is a global resource that consists of a list of regional virtual subnetworks (subnets) in data centers, all connected by a global wide area network.
VPC networks are logically isolated from each other in Google Cloud.

Each Google Cloud project starts with the default network. (VPC)

Auto mode networks create subnets in each region automatically, while custom mode networks start with no subnets, giving user full control over subnet creation.

# Objectives
Custom mode VPC networks with firewall rules (Using Console and Cloud shell command line)                                                                               
Firewall rules for VPC (Using Console and Cloud shell command line)                                                                                         
VM instances for specific Network (Using Console and Cloud shell command line)                                                                                
VM instance with multiple network interfaces                                                                                                      

# Notes

One could ping the external IP address of all VM instances, even though they are either in a different zone or VPC network.
This confirms public access to those instances is only controlled by the ICMP firewall rules.

Internal IP of an instance could be connected by another if both share same VPC network, even though both VM instances are in separate zones/regions.
If seperate, one could not ping even if it is sharing same region and zones.
