# Managing Deployments Using Kubernetes Engine

Heterogeneous deployments typically involve connecting two or more distinct infrastructure environments or regions to address a specific technical or operational need. 
Heterogeneous deployments are called "hybrid", "multi-cloud", or "public-private", depending upon the specifics of the deployment. 
Heterogeneous deployments include those that span regions within a single cloud environment, multiple public cloud environments (multi-cloud), 
or a combination of on-premises and public cloud environments (hybrid or public-private).


Various business and technical challenges can arise in deployments that are limited to a single environment or region:

1. Maxed out resources
2. Limited geographic reach
3. Limited availability
4. Vendor lock-in
5. Inflexible resources 

Heterogeneous deployments can help address these challenges, but they must be architected using programmatic and deterministic processes and procedures.

One-off or ad-hoc deployment procedures can cause deployments or processes to be brittle and intolerant of failures. 
Ad-hoc processes can lose data or drop traffic. 
Good deployment processes must be repeatable and use proven approaches for managing provisioning, configuration, and maintenance.

Three common scenarios for heterogeneous deployment are multi-cloud deployments, fronting on-premises data, 
and continuous integration/continuous delivery (CI/CD) processes.

# Rolling Updates

Deployments support updating images to a new version through a rolling update mechanism. When a Deployment is updated with a new version, 
it creates a new ReplicaSet and slowly increases the number of replicas in the new ReplicaSet as it decreases the replicas in the old ReplicaSet
Pausing a rollout is possible, which means that some pods are at the new version and some pods are at the older version.
A resume command is also available along with pause command.
There is also an option to rollback an update.

Canary deployments: 
When developer want to test a new deployment in production with a subset of the users, use a canary deployment. 
Canary deployments allow to release a change to a small subset of the users to mitigate risk associated with new releases.
A canary deployment consists of a separate deployment with the new version and a service that targets both the normal, 
stable deployment as well as new canary deployment.

Blue-green deployments: 
Rolling updates are ideal because they allow to deploy an application slowly with minimal overhead, minimal performance impact, and minimal downtime. 
There are instances where it is beneficial to modify the load balancers to point to that new version only after it has been fully deployed. 
In this case, blue-green deployments are the way to go.

Kubernetes achieves this by creating two separate deployments; one for the old "blue" version and one for the new "green" version. 
The deployments will be accessed via a Service which will act as the router. Once the new "green" version is up and running, 
it can be switched over to using that version by updating the Service.

A major downside of blue-green deployments is that one will need to have at least 2x the resources in the cluster necessary to host the application. 
Make sure that one have enough resources in the cluster before deploying both versions of the application at once.


# Steps

1. Set up zone                                                                               

2. Clone repo provided 
   Note: Be ready to face errors in this repo, could be dealt as going on or use my forked repo link: https://github.com/CustomUser47/orchestrate-with-kubernetes.git
   The repo provided with link in the lab contains error. Atleast as of today (dated: 12/10/2020 5:55 PM, date and time as per IST(GMT + 5:30))
   Errors could be fixed even if one choose to move on with repo provided by lab or choose my updated repo. Both will be explained.
   
3. Create a deployment
   Note: For editing yaml files(any files) if vi editor is not familiar or seems complex, use nano editor
   Just replace vi with nano. For eg: vi deployments/auth.yaml ----> nano deployments/auth.yaml
   If repo provided by lab is chosen, there might be error in creating deployment object, else if using my repo link, everything should be smooth.
   See this pull request to see the errors: https://github.com/googlecodelabs/orchestrate-with-kubernetes/pull/48 
   Look into the yaml file dealing and make the changes as mentioned in the PR with text editor one is comfortable with.
   Expose it.                                                                                                                           
   Scale the deployment.                                                                                                                      
   
4. Rolling Update

5. Canary deployment
   Creating deployment as mentioned in the lab with repo provided by lab throws error, else if using my repo link, everything should be smooth.
   Again, check this pull request to see the errors: https://github.com/googlecodelabs/orchestrate-with-kubernetes/pull/48
   Look into the yaml file dealing and make the changes as mentioned in the PR with text editor one is comfortable with.
   
6. Blue-green deployments
   Creating deployment as mentioned in the lab with repo provided by lab throws error, else if using my repo link, everything should be smooth.
   Again, check this pull request to see the errors: https://github.com/googlecodelabs/orchestrate-with-kubernetes/pull/48
   Look into the yaml file dealing and make the changes as mentioned in the PR with text editor one is comfortable with.
   
   
   
   
   
   
